Organizing and info dump in F/E section (#156)
trussworks/Engineering-Playbook: web/frontend/architecture.md

# [Engineering Playbook](../../README.md) / [Web Development](../README.md) / [Front End](./README.md) / Frontend Architecture

## Selecting a version of Node.js

When starting a new project, you will want to select an Active LTS release of Node.js and make plans to move to the next LTS release after it becomes active and before the selected release goes out of maintenance. You could choose a "current" release but there is a good chance that the libraries you want to use have not been tested until it becomes active. Odd-numbered releases are short-lived, so only choose one intentionally. (For instance, if some library you want to use doesn't work in an LTS release.) Please refer to this [release schedule](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) to make your selection.

> Once you have done this, you may want to enforce it by configuring the `engines` your projects package.json. For instance, if you have selected 12.x, you might want to add this section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have done this, you may want to enforce it by configuring the `engines` in your project's package.json. For instance, if you have selected 12.x, you might want to add this section:
```

Should this be as suggested above?

> Once you have done this, you may want to enforce it by configuring the `engines` your projects package.json. For instance, if you have selected 12.x, you might want to add this section:

Reviewer 2: the `engines` _in_ your projects

```
# package.json
"engines": {
  "node": "^12"
}
```

You might want to create team recommendations for how your team manages their local version of node.js. For instance, you could recommend they use [nodenv](https://github.com/nodenv/nodenv) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and provide configuration to keep it on the release path you want.

> ## Directory Structure

Reviewer: Nothing to change, I just wanted to note here how awesome this section is. 👍

- Including the CSS entry point (`src/index.scss`) so it doesn't feel left out, and so our webpages look pretty.
- Wrapping the main `<App />` component inside of top-level providers, such as `<ApolloProvider>` (GraphQL), `<Provider>` (Redux), and `<PersistGate>` (redux-persist).
- Finally, rendering the resulting `<App />` component into the DOM (!!)

The next most important file is `src/App.tsx`. This is the top-level component that is rendered into the DOM. It is responsible for 2 important things:

- Imposing a global `<Layout />` onto _all pages_.
- Mapping whatever the current route is to the matching page component. If there is no matching page component, it will render the `NotFound` page component instead.

## To Redux or GraphQL?

A lot of confusion can stem from where to store data and how to access it in React applications. Here's a quick guide:

- GraphQL is for data you are getting from the API. If you are using GraphQL, we recommend using [ApolloClient](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/). ApolloClient is very smart at caching, so when we get API data we don't need to store it anywhere else! Storing API data in Redux would be redundant.

> - Redux is for local application state. That means if there's any UI state that the entire application needs to be aware of, but that _doesn't_ need to be saved to a database for later, we should put it in Redux!

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is a separate discussion, but React `Context` can handle application state rather than implementing Redux in many situations.

Reviewer: Definitely interested in the discussion aspect of this to learn from. I've seen some interesting benchmarks between Context, useReducer, and Redux, and a whole lot of back and forth on when to use which.

Reviewer 3: +1 For someone who doesn't know much React this reads like you **need** to use GraphQL or Redux. I know isn't the choice we want to suggest and interestingly Truss has already had projects that didn't use either (Redox had  a large React frontend where stage was managed entirely with React.Context).

Instead of calling this "To Redux or GraphQL" the section could be titled **Managing Application State** and breifly outline what are different types of application state. Then in presenting different options we just keep these sections here and merge as is.  In future PRs we can add React.Context and ReactQuery or anything else we've seen Truss use.

Author: good catch all! This was from a doc I had written for SABER (which was using Redux & GraphQL) and just copied pasted. I updated to bring this section some more clarity
